Zarr Reading and Writing (.zspy format) - Reformatted (#2825)
hyperspy/hyperspy: doc/user_guide/io.rst

    saving a file, be aware that it may not be possible to load it in some platforms.

.. _zspy-format:

ZSpy - HyperSpy's Zarr Specification
------------------------------------

> This is the an additional format which guarantees that no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to the :ref:`hspy format <hspy-format>`, the zspy format guarantees that no
```

information will be lost in the writing process and that supports saving data
of arbitrary dimensions. It is based on the `Zarr project <https://zarr.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html>`_. Which exists as a drop in
replacement for hdf5 with the intention to fix some of the speed and scaling
issues with the hdf5 format. **If you are working with very large datasets lazily

> we recommend using .zspy for saving and loading your data**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
issues with the hdf5 format and is therefore suitable for saving big data.
```
and add a link to the `Saving Big Data` paragraph.

.. code-block:: python

    >>> s = hs.signals.BaseSignal([0])
    >>> s.save('test.zspy') # will save in nested directory
    >>> hs.load('test.zspy') # loads the directory

When saving to ``zspy``, all supported objects in the signal's
:py:attr:`~.signal.BaseSignal.metadata` is stored. This includes lists, tuples and signals.
Please note that in order to increase saving efficiency and speed, if possible,
the inner-most structures are converted to numpy arrays when saved. This
procedure homogenizes any types of the objects inside, most notably casting

> numbers as strings if any other strings are present:

Reviewer: Is it possible to add a link to the documentation?

Extra saving arguments
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- ``compressor``: A `Numcodecs Codec <https://numcodecs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html?>`_.
   A compresssor can be passed to the save function to compress the data efficiently. The defualt
   is to call a Blosc Compressor object.

.. code-block:: python

    >>> from numcodecs import Blosc
    >>> compressor=Blosc(cname='zstd', clevel=1, shuffle=Blosc.SHUFFLE)
    >>> s.save('test.zspy', compressor = compressor) # will save with Blosc compression

.. note::

    Compression can significantly increase the saving speed. If file size is not
    an issue, it can be disabled by setting ``compressor=None``. In general we recommend

>     compressing your datasets as it can greatly reduce i-o overhead

Reviewer: This is not clear what is meant here. I suspect that the idea is: compression allow reducing IO overhead, which can increase reading/writing when enough computation power is available, in other words, balancing compression time against IO time. This is particularly relevant for the zarr format because this is done concurrently by default, while for the hdf5 format, this is more complicated to do so.

Author: This is mostly for large data sets which are stored on slow spinning disk harddrives.  Like you said, in my  personal case I am often i-o bound for lazy operations and have an excess of computational power.

Maybe this is better:

"Lazy operations are often i-o bound, reading and writing the data creates a bottle neck in processes due to the slow read write speed of many hard disks. In these cases, compressing your data is often beneficial to the speed of some operation.   Compression speeds up the process as there is less to read/write with the trade off of slightly more computational work on the CPU."

Reviewer: Yes, this is clear and actually, I mentioned concurrently writing/reading, which is a bit misleading here because this is an "orthogonal" consideration.

> - ``write_to_storage``: The write to storage option allows you to pass the path to a directory (or database)

Reviewer: A more alternative would be to define the `store` argument to pass a zarr store, for example, as defined by `store = zarr.ZipStore('data/example.zip', mode='w')`. If the store argument is specified, then the zspy can pick up the path from the store itself and it doesn't need to be defined explicitely.
An even more simple alternative is to accept _zarr store_ for the filename but I am not convinced it is good because it is a bit misleading.

Author: Yea I considered both of those possibilities but decided against them for kind of the reason you described above. 

For the passing of a store argument  your filename doesn't really mean anything as only the store argument will be passed. If I remember correctly this complicates things a little bit. 

The second one is pretty do-able and I think that I got it working at one point. I could be convinced to get that working again.  The question is if that really makes sense.

Reviewer: Going for option 2 should be good because this is a pattern used by the [`zarr.group`](https://zarr.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api/hierarchy.html#zarr.hierarchy.group), as it can take a path or a zarr store as first argument.
